all right one of the
things we've prepared for today is
jupiter hub
so it is one of the ways you will be
able to
run the examples uh all the all the code
examples called exercises yourself
you can of course use your own computer
but you can also use this
shared resource so the url is
data-hub.inm7.de
you should have received your usernames
in your emails they're usually your
first usually but not always they are
your first names
so if you if you if you if you're going
to use the jupiter hub and you don't
don't have the
username then please then please let us
know
the password is whatever you use for the
first access
so whatever you type for the first time
will become your password to the hub for
the next two days so whatever you choose
make sure you
save it
and let me give you a quick tour of the
interface that we will be using
this is what you what you will see the
first time you log in and there are
basically two parts one will be called
launcher and the other will be
a side panel and also a short menu on
the top
uh so first of all there are some
settings you can adjust how things look
for example by
choosing between
a light or dark theme
here also in the settings theme you have
buttons like increase or decrease font
size
and they are separately for code for
content for ui
and for also terminal out here
i have increased mine how i hope they
are
they are visible on zoom as well
and here you can also
change how things look so you can for
example slide the side panel to make it
smaller or bigger
jupiter lab is something that has been
made especially for
notebooks
you may have heard of jupyter notebooks
these are environments to
combine
code and
code and markdown and outputs
in one place we won't be using notebooks
today
we will be using instead
uh
the jupiter lab for the terminal it
provides so here in the launcher under
in the other section
you have a terminal that opens a
terminal
that is a
regular
unix terminal
regular bash
that runs on the on the server in the
cloud and you have your own
user account for the duration of the
workshop
so for example i
so the terminal works so in a way that i
type a command and i get response for so
for example
who am i will print my
username here
we will be using the terminal to run the
datalot commands
many of these commands will create files
and the files that are created
will also be visible to you in this file
browser here so
for now i don't have many files
but with time
they will be populated i can make
directories either from the
terminal here
and
it it appeared here i can go into it by
double clicking i can go back
but i can also use these
buttons here
that will create new folders
like this and i can also
create a new file
i can can name it
anything i want
and
i can
open it with an editor
so here i'll get an editor tab
where i can write things and i have the
buttons file
save python file
i can close things
i can open them from a launcher
or i can open them by double clicking in
the file browser window
so we will be looking at the file
browser we will be working mostly with
the terminal
we will be using
using the
built-in editor to edit files
you have some some panes here that that
show other jupyter things
but we'll mostly be looking at the
file browser and you can also
click on this button here to make the
site panel appear
or disappear
and i think that
that's the
shortest possible tour of the
interface will be